There's so many of us in life that want
our relationship with our parents to
improve, but we're scared to do it
because we think we're going to have to
sacrifice some part of oursel. In this
coaching session, which happened during
one of our live Q&A, we meet a person
who's struggling with exactly that
problem and how they find themselves in
figuring out what to do around their
parents. My question is
um I'm in conflict on I don't speak with
my parents. Yeah. And uh I've heard your
stories on how you you know send a
letter to your father and all of that
and that all very much resonate with me.
And uh I'm in this place where I feel
like I deeply want to connect with them,
talk to them, visit with them sometimes.
And I've been so hurt and I've healed so
much in the last 2 years that I
completely stopped talking with them.
And I've made space for people that can
see me and it's been so incredibly
healing and at the same time there's
this guilt shame of not speaking with
them. So, how do I any any advice or how
do I Yeah, I'm not going to give you
advice, but yeah. Gotcha. So,
um sounds
like when before you left, their habit
was to guilt you. A lot of guilt.
My mother, yes. Guilting me a lot. My
father's just Where are they now? In
Slovenia. Okay. That's where I'm from. I
gotcha. And um and dad is just absent.
I don't even know how to describe him. I
honestly haven't met a person like that.
Um maybe mild alcoholic, but that was
never an issue. He just didn't see me.
Um in his head, everybody's against him,
I think. Highly insecure on the inside,
highly aggressive uh on the outside,
very uh I was very scared of him as a
kid and also wanted a deep connection.
and my mother uh would um kind of shame
me for being sensitive to his deeply
hurting words and why am I so sensitive
and you know just get over it and
gotcha. So that was kind of dynamic till
I was in my 20s. And how badly do your
parents want to speak to you now?
Um my dad reaches out once a year. He
reached out now because he had 70th
birthday and I guess it something
triggered him to want his kids around I
guess but other than that barely
anything. My mother I had to cut her
off. She loved to talk to me because I
was practically her therapist for years.
Got it. Yeah. What's the relationship
you want with your parents?
I would like to visit with them, hug
them. No, I mean
um you you can't control anything about
how they're going to do their thing in
the world. What's what what is when you
look at your parents, how do you want to
be with them?
In the energy of love and acceptance.
Great. And yet highly um caring for
myself. Gotcha. Within that. Yeah. So
you want to have an openhearted, high
boundaried relationship. It sounds like
Yes. Yeah. How can you love your parents
without an open heart?
I I can't. How can you love your parents
without boundaries?
I can't either. Okay.
There's this guilt that not doing it.
Yeah. Yeah. That's that's what you were
taught. Yeah. So, let's start with the
guilt. See what it's like to love the
guilt and be boundaried with the guilt
in this minute.
You're Yeah,
I I don't know how to do
that. Um I don't believe you.
I think you're doing it.
It feels like a scared little kid.
That's right.
Yeah. So then you're already there.
Yeah. That's your mom.
Let's Yeah, let's make sure we double
down on the boundary with the guilt.
What would you say to guilt for a
boundary?
see
you. I know what you're doing, what
you're trying to do,
and and
uh I know how deeply you care.
Yeah.
Yeah. And that's as far as I can go.
So the thing about your mom's guilt is
that there's a
fear. Every time she's scared, she moves
to
guilt. And you are like, "Fuck you. I
don't want to take on your fear." Yes.
Yeah. Right.
So you push it
away. So I want you to be your mom.
You're going to guilt me. We're going to
try something out and we're going to see
how it works in your system. Okay. Okay.
You can guilt me.
Why can't you be different? Why are you
so sensitive? I can't say anything
anymore. Uh,
hey, Mom. Mom, I see that you're really
scared. And I just want you to know I
can be right here with you in that. I'm
right here. What do you mean really
scared? What? What kind of Austin is
that? This deep What? What was
that? I don't you just don't want to be
here and talk to me if you don't want to
visit me. Yeah. I also see that you're
really angry and I can be right here
with that,
too. I don't need you to be any
different. Oh, what happened in you?
Just to just to witness that for a
second. What happened in you?
I just had a thought. My dad was the
angry one, so she couldn't be
angry. So I was like, "Oh, that's
underneath that is the anger that she's
not expressing
that." Cuz he took that role of the
angry person. So she had to be the nice
but guilt tripping person. Yeah. Passive
aggressive, right? That's right.
I just saw the fear in her all the time.
So she always called me, "You're the
strong one." cuz you know I didn't show
any fear even though I was scared like
hell. So in other words when she was
saying you're the sensitive one don't be
so sensitive she was talking to herself
the whole time. Yeah. Yeah.
For sure.
Yeah. So what stops
you if you can just be with the fear and
the
anger? What stopped you
from being able to call your
parents? The boundary. That's what even
with the guilt. That was the hard part.
The boundary. Yeah. What's What would
make you think you can't hold a boundary
now?
I guess I'm scared that the emotions
will over overpower me and I won't think
straight and then I will um not be able
to hold a boundary and I will get hurt
again.
Yeah, probably will happen.
I guess I'm tired of feeling the
hurt. I can be with your hurt. I don't
need it to change.
just comes and goes all the time. I feel
it hits me all the
time randomly.
Yeah.
So, just one second. See what it's like
to welcome that hurt in that in a way
that you always wanted it to be welcomed
when you were a kid. So, you were a kid
and you hurt and your dad would just get
angry and your mom would guilt trip
you. Imagine that it like someone just
was there to be able to be with you in
that hurt in the way that you
wanted and be with that hurt the same
way. Like just totally welcome and
embrace that hurt.
I still see you resisting it a little
bit.
It feels like my heart goes just
Yeah. Let it do that. Let it do that
all the way.
Even more welcoming.
[Music]
Yeah. Almost feels like terror.
Yeah.
Looks like it's half terror, half love.
And now think about your mom and dad,
right? Again, you just did that for like
a minute or
something. How do you see them
differently? Not in story, but in
They're both in terror.
Yeah, they're both in in in such insane
fear.
Yeah,
that tells me that you're seeing them
with more love.
Yeah.
To see them, to have that empathy.
I saw the scared parts, but it's it's
terror. It's horror almost.
Yeah, they lived through some man.
This is what makes you want to be with
your parents.
Because this is it's allowing you to
love like you're allowing your heart to
break. It's increasing your capacity to
love.
Feel it. Yeah.
Thank you, Joe. You're very welcome.
Total pleasure. Thank you so much.